Think of how we can make mistakes, how we can break Samayas, how we can break Samayas.
And that is generally in the Buddha's teaching and specifically in the Vedaya teachings.
Generally in the Buddha's teaching, the soul of the breaking Samaya or breaking the vows or
breaking the morality has four causes.
Four causes. Four causes. Those are, first is not knowing, not knowing.
And secondly is disrespectfulness. And third is, and third is carelessness.
And the fourth is, and too many emotions.
So that is four. In the Tibetan, I said we are talking this in the Tibetan, so we talked a bit.
In the Tibetan, first is unknowing is mashippa. Mashippa, M-A-S-H-E, I think that's it, M-A-S-H-E-S
maybe, P-A, mashippa.
And second is mashippa, mashippa, mashippa, and disrespectful. And that is in the Tibetan, mashippa
, M-A-G-U-N-P-A, mashippa, mashippa, maybe you can add S-G-U-S, mashippa, mashippa, mashippa.
And third is pamippa, pamippa, pamippa is B-A-G-N-M-E-D-P-A, pamippa. So that is carelessness.
And the fourth is, what is the fourth? The fourth is nyumumbamma, there are too many emotions.
Nyumumbamma, N-Y-O-N-N-O-N-G, nyumumbamma. And second word, M-A-N-G-N-W-A, nyumumbamma.
Those are generally Buddha teaching, maybe the full source of the, we break samayas, or we break
vows, or we break those instructions, those four.
Then you ready and I added two more. That is forgetful and confused. So forgetful and confused.
That is true.
And that is in Tibet, in Tibet, forgetful is J-E. J-E, J-E-N-G-E, J-N-A, J-N-A. So that's just a
pronunciation, J-N-A.
And J-E-N-G-E, C-supa. And the next one is C-supa. S-E-M-T-S-U-B and B-A, maybe B-A, not B-A.
So C-supa, C-supa. So that is, these are then plus, those all together, six.
First is Mishipa. First is unknowing. And now, unknowing is. That is, of course, we break the samay
as, or we break the vows, because we don't know what this should do, what don't do.
But it's not that what we do, what we don't do. Buddha had to lay out everything so detailed, so
thoughtful, really so thoughtful, so all.
It's all so simple, so simple and so with common senses. With the common senses.
It's not something that Buddha is breaking, kind of like methologica, other side of the universe is
a story and apply and do this, do that.
If you don't do that, that's not correct. It's not.
With the common sense of the human work, it's really, Buddha lay out so beautifully how to guide
ourself, guide ourself, or how to support our practice.
So, and therefore then, we learn, such as vows, we learn the samayas.
It's a lay out of the, in a way, road map, road map of our enlightenment, for our discovery of the
Buddha nature.
The complete lay out, so beautifully, so perfectly. So therefore, then, we don't have that.
The trouble of not knowing is all lay out, quite beautifully.
Maneta in the teaching said, when you don't know the vows, we have the vows, we have the vows.
When you know the vows, we don't have the vows. What does that mean?
When you know the inward in the Tibetan energy, you see.
When you don't know the Vinaya, you have the vows. When you know that Vinaya, then you don't have
the vows.
So, that happens. So therefore, when you don't know, then you don't know.
So then, it's something you can do. And that is what, also I think, what in teaching, not teaching,
what in here say?
Ignorant is bliss. Ignorant is bliss. When you don't know the Vinaya, then you have the vows, it's
bliss.
But you have the Chinese wisdom, then we see, oh, I did something, I'm not. You can find out that.
So, we don't have the troubles of not knowing.
And the second is, then, we can break the vows, or the dynamic desires, because we disrespect.
We know all things, but then we have no respect. And that is no respect, and then you can make
mistakes.
And now, we know the vow, we have the respect, then, when something happens, because of care
lessness.
Carelessness. Then, that happens.
And now, we have all that. We know, we respect, we pay attention, but then the next one, fourth one
, is too much emotions.
We control the power of the emotions, then we break the rules. We break the rules. So, that.
And that is, those are known as four rules of the, of the breaking the rules.
Four causes, causes of four reasons that we can break.
Then, above the video, the teaching added that two more. That is, we have all that, we respect
everything, but we forget it.
Forget it. Our mindfulness alert does not stop, and now, we forget it.
And the next one is, we have everything, we not forget it, but we confuse it.
Confuse it, and we, again, it is, and we get mistakes.
When mistakes happen, it's mistakes. Whatever that is, whatever reason to happen, mistakes,
mistakes, it's mistakes.
The moment you're aware of the mistakes, then you should restore, not usual, we should restore.
We should restore our practice.
According to the different teachings, and basically, quickly, and very early teaching, then, such
as, such as, practice on the vajayasathas, vajayasathas.
We did, as we received the teaching from the Guru, we did four powers, four powers, and purify.
Thinking of high light of that thought, and purify.
All do mandatory activities, mandatory activities, such as making offerings.
For example, when we do the sok se remun, nana jakar offering, that is also really one of the very
powerful in the teachings,
purifications, and the fulfillment, restoring the walls, and we make offerings of the light, inc
ense, candle, and amrta, and rakta, and kolma offerings.
Those are all, in the teachings, so powerful, it really has a lot of symmetric, and it will restore
that, and clears away that,
and then possibly, then, some of the certain embolism of the temple and the stukas, Paul's
teachings, and the generosity practices.
Common community, kind of good community, that services, you know, that benefit to the others, or
help to the elders, elders.
All that, when you do those, in the teachings, it will purify those, make it what you want to do
with that.
So, this is what we do, purifications, and then, particularly.